Answer these below Questions:




What jdk contains or composed of and define each components?
	Answer:	The JDK contains:
		Java Compiler (javac) - The compiler converts source code into bytecode
		Java Virtual Machine (JVM)- The virtual machine runs the bytecode in the Operating System.

What is IDE?
	Answer:	Integrated Development Environment

What are the IDEs available in the market to support java?
	Answer:	Eclipse, Intellij

Explain the entire java life cycle.
	Answer:	Editor to Source Code to Compiler to byte Code to Virtual Machine to OS

what is class?
	Answer:	Class is a blueprint of an Object.

What is object?
	Answer:	An object is an instance of the class.

What is the entry point of an application?
	Answer:	main(String[] args)

Why main is static?
	Answer:	This way main can be called without creating an instance of Main

What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?
	Answer:	Interface only holds methods without definition.
	Answer:	Abstract Class holds methods with definition which can be changed.

Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class ? if not how do you use it ?
	Answer:	No, you'll have to implement the interface to another class.
	Answer:	No, you'll have to extend the abstract class to another class.

what is Access Specifier?
	Answer:	Public, Private, Protected, and Package

What is OOP ? Define each feature of java OOP.
	Answer:	Object Oriented Programming.
		Abstraction - Create Abstract classes and methods
		Inheritance - Create classes with pre-existing codes
		Encapsolation - Data hiding within the class
		Polymorphism - Create multiple methods with the same name, but with different arguments and different functions
		
What is API? Name list of API that you have used so far.
	Answer:	Application programming interface
		java.util.
			String
			LinkedList
			Math
		
Does java support multiple inheritance?
	Answer:	No
		
What is method overloading and when it happens?
	Answer:	When you have a method with the same name, but want to create one that takes more or less arguments from the original.
	Use this when you want to create a method that accepts different arguments.

What is method overriding and when it happens?
	Answer:	When you have a methods with the same name and arguments, but would like to create a new one to be called instead.  
	Use this when the method is defined in an inherited class, but don't want to change that class.

Explain exceptions in java and how to handle it.
	Answer: An exception is an event that occurs during the normal process of the program.
	Using try catch method.

What is static keyword in java? How it has been used in variables and methods ?
	Answer:	Static means the variable or class can be called without the creation of an instance of the class.
	Static variables are variables, you like to be same for all instances of that object.
	Static methods are methods, you can call without creating an instance of the object. 
	
What is final and how it has been used variables and methods?
	Answer:	Using final makes things final.  You cannot change once it is declared.

What is final, finally and finalize?
	Answer:	
		final is making sure you can't change it.
		finally is used after a try catch statement.
		finalize is for garbage collection.
		
What is a constructor ?
	Answer: A constructor is similar to a method, but it has the same name as the Class.  This is what is used to create an object.
	
What is "this" keyword in java ?
	Answer:	Within the class, this refers to the current object.
	
What is JVM stand for ?
	Answer: Java Virtual Machine
		
What version of java are you using?
	Answer:	1.8
	
What is JAR stand for ?
	Answer:	Java Archive
	
What is compile time and run time?
	Answer:
		Compile time is the time when the application is created.
		Run time is the time when the applicaiton is running.
		
What is heap?
	Answer:	Heap is a location of memory
	
How java manage it's memory?
	Answer:	Java has it's own memory manager.